The Health of Barking
understood, namely that of a flavoured effervescing preparation containing
a large proportion of sugar.
"While no serious objection can be taken to the non-effervescing
lemonade powder preparations, provided they are well supplied with sugar,
nevertheless in my opinion the sale of preparations having the general
composition of effervescing health salts and containing no sugar is definitely
undesirable."
An appreciable amount of alarm was caused to mothers of young children because
of the distinct staining of lips and tongue by the yellow dye used in the manufacture.
Sausages. The detection of horse-flesh in sausages has always been a difficult
problem, but during the year the Borough Analyst reported that by using a new
serum technique he is now able to establish when horse-flesh has been used.
General. The year was unusual in that there were a number of instances where
we were called upon to carry out chemical examination of foods under suspicion
only to find serious adulteration as the result of some mischievous admixture, e.g.
14 per cent, of salt added to moist sugar ; and milk with 59 per cent, of added water.
There was no evidence of wilful adulteration and since the operation of the
legislation requiring detailed labelling of containers there has been a marked
reduction in misrepresentation.
Prosecutions. Two prosecutions were instituted in relation to bread which
was unsound, owing the presence of cockroaches.
In one case there was a fine of £20 with £2 2s. costs and in the second case
a fine of £5.
FOOD POISONING.
Only eight cases of food poisoning were notified during the year, but I do not
feel that this represents the whole of the persons affected. With more general
recognition by the public of the cases of minor diarrhoea and sickness, more action
can be taken towards prevention and control.
STREET TRADING.
The demand for increase in food supplies has been emphasised in Barking by
the inadequate number of retail shops sited on the London County Council Estate.
Owing to the shortage of " off ration " foods the Council decided to allow trading
from street stalls to commence. This departure from the normal practice in Barking
was undertaken reluctantly and arose from the insistent demand of the consumer
residents. It is not suggested that even with the strict operation of the Street
Trading Bye-laws the same standard of hygiene can be maintained as in established
shops. I look forward to the time when available food supplies distributed from
the established shops will be sufficient for all purposes.
FOOD MARKETS.
There are two covered markets established in the district in which the majority
of the shops retail food. The sanitary conveniences and washing facilities are
provided in a unit building for use by the whole of the traders. This is not ideal,
Page 53
